---
layout: post
title:  "2017 notes to myself"
date: 2017-01-01 
tags:
  - year-end
  - personal
---

Nice to meet you 2017! Glad to see that you've made it here safely. I'm trying
to be more honest and open so let me tell you about a few things that I wanted
te put on the burner this year and why. 

<!-- more //-->

Also just a note, I've left off the 'how' part of this post because, well I'm a
bit more embarrassed of that. :) Mostly because the Internet will see that I'm
severly dehydrated (i.e. Drink a minimum of 2L of water a day) or vain (i.e.
Weigh myself everyday and use the Garmin app to track it). So with that said,
let's start!

In 2017, I will focus on creating things of value for people, putting some
positivity back into the world, and rebuilding Ritchie (me).

I want to feel in control of my destiny. To be comfortable with my insecurity
and feelings of inadequacy. I will become a person that works and hustles every
day to create or build value. Don't be a jerk. I want an expanded circle of
friends and building deeper relationships with my close friends and family.
Rebuilding good healthy habits to make sure that the body feels strong, active,
and never lazy. I want to rebuild my mobility and become a triathlete in the
long term. Finally, I want to know that I am a competitive candidate as an IT
manager and a developer.

I will say 'yes' to more opportunities that come my way and finish things that I
start successfully.

## Find more time to spend with my family and friends

In 2016, I learned that taking vacations with family and friends weren't bad at
all. It was the first year of [#BestBudsVacay](IMG_0422.jpg)! Our family went to
Hawaii to celebrate Cheryl's 40th orbit around the sun. In the past, vacations
weren't big for me; work and career always took priority. I want to do more of
it.

## Create more things and put it out there into the world

In 2016, we launched Nucleoid and sadly pulled it back because we didn't feel
like it was ready. So we'll work on it more and relaunch it back in 2017.

Vlogging has been a fascinating experience. It reminds me of the old days of the
online publishing and the excitement of being at the turning point for something
big. 

Photography is also something that I've rediscovered. I haven't bought a digital
camera in years (I've been inheriting my DSLRs from my father-in-law), but
buying a new camera is exactly what I did in December with a promise to take
more pictures.

## Become healthier

I definitely feel like I've lost track of my health in 2016. I've been plagued
with running injuries and sickness which really put a damper on plans. I've made
a goal to rediscover triathlons in near future and work towards that. Finding my
motivation and selfless reasons for being healthy in 2017 is my big priority. 

## Rediscover my career

I've been at my company for a long time (a little less than 20 years)! I've
changed job title, moved to different roles but it's hard not to question the
validity of my skillset. For example, how well do I stack up as a developer to
others out there in the field? Have I stagnated as an IT manager? A little
investment of time in this area wouldn't hurt.

So there you have it. [Let's do this!](55256315.jpg)


